I find the whole Open-Source movement to be interesting because it shows how like-minded people can make change happen if they put their time and energy to it. The beginning of GNU (GNU’s Not Unix) is a great story as well. It is pretty amazing that one person, Richard Stallman, not wanting to be controlled by big operating system companies is what led to the creation of one of the most important tools to the whole movement. It takes a lot of courage to quit a good job to pursue something you are passionate about. Especially if you are one of the first people to do something and you also have to consider who they were going up against.

Richard Stallman is an important part to the whole Open-Source movement. He not only created the GNU software but he also created and pushed the idea of Copyleft which in his words is “Copyright flipped over”. Copyleft is what allows people to truly make their software free and not restricted. Copyleft tells the users that the software is copyrighted but that the authors of the software do give the users the permission to go contribute to the software so long as if they choose to share they share it with the same freedom to other possible users. Stallman also tells us that we should think of “free” software as in free in freedom, and not as free beer.

I found Bill Gates Open Letter to Hobbyist to be interesting because I can see how his argument may be valid. There are plenty of people who work on things and do not receive any compensation for their work. It reminds me a lot of the music industry. Major recording labels will sign new and upcoming artists and will end up controlling what they can and cannot release to the public. It ends up screwing over the people who work on the projects and the people who want to listen to the projects. The only problem I have with the Open Letter to Hobbyist is the tone and phrasing that Gates uses. It comes off as very aggressive and it just left a very bad impression of him on me. I can understand why he does it though. The amount of money that he was able to make of monetizing software is immense so of course he would not want to give that up for anything.

I also decided to look up popular open software to see if there was any that I used that I didn’t think about. The one that surprised me was Python. I don’t know why I didn’t put two and two together sooner. I am currently in CSC 231 and I have some experience in Python now. I can definitely see how it is very useful to be able to share things like dictionaries, classes, functions, and things of that nature. Users are able to build upon the work of others and in turn make better programs and code in genral.
